90DW Project Skills
===================


Vision
------

Participants enter the project with some coding skills, and 
a desire to actively participate in an Open Source project. 
They will be mentored for 90 days, and will end with a 
personalized project, and the base skills required to be an
open source contributor. 


Goal
----

Participant will gain useful project skills. 

  - Team Communication
  - Version Control
  - Code Reading
  - Test Driven Development
  - Documentation
  - Packaging and Deployment


Method
------

Using an existing Ruby based project, the participant will be
mentored through each skill area.


Process
-------

Participants will fork the project repository. Each week they
will get an e-mail with an area to focus on, and a challenge
to accomplish. The e-mails are conversations, and everyone is
encouraged to help others while facing their own challenges.

The project lead will publish times he will be available via 
IRC (Freenode#ruby).


Money
-----

There is no charge for participation. The project lead, or 
other volunteer mentors, will not ask for nor accept financial
remuneration. 

Participation requires time, effort, and sometimes the purchase
of resources like books or classes. The project lead does not
sell resources they recommend, nor do they receive financial
compensation for the recommendation. 


Language
--------

Noun:  English is the project language for this iteration. However,
if someone's English skills are imperfect, they are still encouraged
to participate. For the student willing to do the work, a way can
be found.

Verb:  All communications between the project lead, participants, and
volunteer mentors will be encouraging, helpful, honest, and friendly.
 

Licensing and Ownership
-----------------------

The project codebase is Open Source, and licensed under the 
"Open Works License" (version 0.9.4, or latest). Participants
are encouraged, but not required, to participate in the Open
Source movement. Participants will retain ownership of derivative 
works they make of the project. The project codebase
itself remains under the Open Works License; participants 
agree that if they contribute code to the project, their 
contributed code falls under the same license as the project.


 
